---
published: true
layout: post
category: personal
---
I think that it's not sensible to talk about this documentary and the content's terribleness in 2020 but I have got a few words to say. I don't know about what happened after all this twelve years, I don't think that something has changed actually, maybe some law regulations but this nastiness still continues and perhaps it has evolved, enlarged. 

But if you learnt, saw and realized the whole process and industry with this documentary only; you have missed a lot already. We haven't got any choice practically, we all live in big cities -I don't think it matters with the country you live-, industry needs quick supplies and we need rapid consumptions. 

Documentary's biggest failure is -I think of course- its huge promoting of "organic food" side. Capitalism have made born this whole disgusting fast food concept and it also continues to grow it, but besides it; we shouldn't sacrifice the idea of "organic food" to capitalism and big companies too. Because, you know, like the Food, Inc. says when a boss company sees the potential of the "organic" thing, companies rapidly transforms this idea to the product to sell you, as always. We must avoid to being deceived like this way.

Here are the some of stats and notes that I have written while I watching the Food, Inc.;
-In the past, an average American farmer can "feed" 6 person but now they can feed up to 126 human being.
-Chicks become 2,5 kilograms in seven weeks and the fact of the muscles' and organs's weakness to this fast growing was disturbing. They can't even walk after this process, they fall and wait to be slaughtered.
-USA's 30% of plantable areas' is filled with corn only. The genetically changed corn of course, and when you see the this simple plant's usage scale, it makes you very surprised I think because the scale starts from ketchup to batteries, cokes to diapers. You can realize how large this innocent vegetable using areas easily.
-It was interesting for me to learn the biggest recipient of the pork, apple, lettuce, potato and chicken is McDonald's, worldwide of course.
-An average American eats 90 kilograms of meat every year and it couldn't be possible if the cheap corn animal feed does not exist. It's meaningless to remind the E. coli issue of poor Kevin, his mother and also other children.

There are lots of things to talk, discuss about documentary and whole sector but I think I should stop here. You must see this documentary if you didn't watch it. It will make you think before you eat your dinner, like show says, unfortunately.
